Consider a body B of known geometry, material properties, and loading in a three-
dimensional Euclidean space

For a given geometry and loading, the body B will undergo macroscopic geometric
changes within the body, which are termed deformation. 

The geometric changes are accompanied by stresses that are induced in the body. 

If the applied loads are time dependent, the deformation of the body will also be a function of time,
 that is, the geometry of the body B will change continuously with time. 

If the loads are applied slowly so that the deformation is only dependent on the loads, 
the body will occupy a continuous sequence of geometric regions. 

The region occuccupied by the continuum at a given time t is termed a configuration and denoted by κ.

Assume that the continuum initially occupies a configuration κ0, in which a particle occupies the position X. The position is referred to using a rectangular Cartesian system (X1 , X2 , X3 ), which are the material coordinates.


After the application of the loads, the continuum changes its geometric shape and 
thus assumes a new configuration κ, called the current or deformed configuration.

The phrase deformation of a continuum refers to relative displacements and changes
in the geometry experienced by the continuum B under the influence of a force
system. The displacement of the particle X is given, 

u = x − X.

A frame of reference is chosen, explicitly or implicitly, to describe the defor-
mation.

The mathematical description of the deformation of a continuous body follows
one of the two approaches: (1) the material description and (2) spatial description.

In the material description, the motion of the body is referred to a reference con-
figuration κR, which is often chosen to be the undeformed configuration, κ R = κ 0.
The material description is also known as the Lagrangian description.


In the Lagrangian description, the displacements are expressed in terms of the ma-
terial coordinates X i
u(X, t) = x(X, t) − X.


In the spatial description, the motion is referred to the current configuration κ oc-
cupied by the body B , and φ is described with respect to the current position (x ∈ κ)
in space. φ = φ(x, t), The coordinates (x) are termed the spatial coordinates. The spatial description is known as the Eulerian description. 

Thus, as time changes different values of φ are observed at the same spatial location x, now probably occupied by a different material particle X.


in the Eulerian description the displacements are expressed in terms of the spatial coordinates x

u(x, t) = x - X(x,t)

So in the Lagrangian description, the deformation is described by tracking the movement of a particle

While in the Eulerian description, a frame of reference is chosen in the spatial coordinates, and we track
a stream of particles going through this reference frame. 

Geotechnical problems conventionally use the Lagrangian description, while the Eulerian frame is used in fluid mechanics.




The deformation gradient tensor is useful in describing the deformation of a body. 

The determinant of the the deformation gradient tensor F is the Jacobian of motion J = det F. 

If the Jacobian is unity J = 1, then the deformation is rigid rotation or the current and the reference configurations coincide, which is referred to as constant volume.

In general, the deformation gradient F is a function of the material descriptio X. if F = I identity matrix
everywhere in the body, then the body is not roated and is undeformed. If the value of deformation gradient F is same 
everywhere in the body, then it is said to have homogenous motion. 


Let's look at some examples. 

Tf a material undergoes a pure compression then it has no shear deformations, and only the diagonal terms are active. 

The deformation gradient tensor  would like :

The deformation is called isochoric, if and only if lambda = 1, 


An example of homogenous extension in the X direction would look like this:

Where except for the x-direction, all others have constant volume conditions locally.

In the case of pure shear along a direction, we can write the deformation tensor F as:

Where the det F, the jacobian of motion is still 1, so it means there is no volume change.


A nonhomogeneous deformation is one in which the deformation gradient F is a
function of X.























